added content to information gathering using frida (#1603)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x05c-Reverse-Engineering-and-Tampering.md

#### Dynamic Instrumentation

##### Information Gathering

In this section we will learn about how to use Frida to obtain information about a running application.

###### Getting Loaded Classes and their Methods

> In the Frida REPL to access Java runtime, `Java` command can be used to access information within the running app. Unlike `ObjC` command for iOS, for Java, the code need to be called via `Java.perform()` function. Thus, the best way to get list of loaded Java classes and their corresponding methods and field is to use Frida scripts. One such script is listed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Frida REPL the command `Java` can be used to access the Java runtime and to access information within the running app. Unlike the `ObjC` command for iOS, for Java the code need to be called via the `Java.perform()` function. Thus, the best way to get a list of loaded Java classes and their corresponding methods and field is to use Frida scripts. One such script is listed below.
```

Reviewer 2: Hi Sven, I've enhanced the suggestion below. What do you think?

> In the Frida REPL to access Java runtime, `Java` command can be used to access information within the running app. Unlike `ObjC` command for iOS, for Java, the code need to be called via `Java.perform()` function. Thus, the best way to get list of loaded Java classes and their corresponding methods and field is to use Frida scripts. One such script is listed below.

Reviewer 2: I've kept Sven's suggestions plus some enhancements:

- Frida CLI instead of REPL ( we've introduced it with that name as in the Frida docs https://www.frida.re/docs/frida-cli/)
- remove the ( ) in the method
- some rephrasing 

```suggestion
You can use the command `Java` in the Frida CLI to access the Java runtime and retrieve information from the running app. Remember that, unlike Frida for iOS, in Android you need to wrap your code inside a `Java.perform` function. Thus, it's more convenient to use Frida scripts to e.g. get a list of loaded Java classes and their corresponding methods and fields or for more complex information gathering or instrumentation. One such scripts is listed below.
```

> ```

Reviewer: Could you please give the Frida command to load the script and execute it for an app?

Author: I have added the command to be used just before the output.

// Get list of loaded Java classes and methods

Java.perform(function() {
    Java.enumerateLoadedClasses({
        onMatch: function(className) {
            console.log(className);
            describeJavaClass(className);
        },
        onComplete: function() {}
    });
});

// Get the methods and fields
function describeJavaClass(className) {
  var jClass = Java.use(className);
  console.log(JSON.stringify({
    _name: className,
    _methods: Object.getOwnPropertyNames(jClass.__proto__).filter(function(m) {
      return !m.startsWith('$') // filter out Frida related special properties
        || m == 'class' || m == 'constructor' // optional
    }),
    _fields: jClass.class.getFields().map(function(f) {
      return( f.toString());
    })
  }, null, 2));
}

> 

Reviewer: Where did you get the script from? I would prefer if we link to the original script, if it's hosted on Github or somewhere else.

// Output

[Huawei Nexus 6P::sg.vantagepoint.helloworldjni]->
...

com.scottyab.rootbeer.sample.MainActivity
{
  "_name": "com.scottyab.rootbeer.sample.MainActivity",
  "_methods": [
  ...
    "beerView",
    "checkRootImageViewList",
    "floatingActionButton",
    "infoDialog",
    "isRootedText",
    "isRootedTextDisclaimer",
    "mActivity",
    "GITHUB_LINK"
  ],
  "_fields": [
    "public static final int android.app.Activity.DEFAULT_KEYS_DIALER",
...

> com.scottyab.rootbeer.sample.CheckRootTask$OnCheckRootFinishedListener

Reviewer: Could you please remove this line and the next ones, so we only have a dump of one class and it's methods?

Author: done.

{
  "_name": "com.scottyab.rootbeer.sample.CheckRootTask$OnCheckRootFinishedListener",
  "_methods": [
    "constructor",
    "class",
    "onCheckRootFinished"
  ],
  "_fields": []
}
...

```

Given the verbosity of the output, the system classes can be filtered out programmatically to make output more readable and relevant to the use case.

###### Getting Loaded Libraries

> In Frida REPL process related information can be obtained using the `Process` command. Within the `Process` command the function `enumerateModules` lists the libraries loaded into the process memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can retrieve process related information straight from.the Frida CLI by using the `Process` command. Within the `Process` command the function `enumerateModules` lists the libraries loaded into the process memory.
```

```
[Huawei Nexus 6P::sg.vantagepoint.helloworldjni]-> Process.enumerateModules()
[
    {
        "base": "0x558a442000",
        "name": "app_process64",
        "path": "/system/bin/app_process64",
        "size": 32768
    },
    {
        "base": "0x78bc984000",
        "name": "libandroid_runtime.so",
        "path": "/system/lib64/libandroid_runtime.so",
        "size": 2011136
    },

>     {

Reviewer: Let's keep the output always to a minimum, so it's not overwhelming and the reader can focus on what's important.  Can you please just list the first two loaded libraries?

Author: I am sorry, seems i always leave more than what is needed.

        "base": "0x78bdbca000",
        "name": "libbinder.so",
        "path": "/system/lib64/libbinder.so",
        "size": 598016
    },

...

> ```

Reviewer: Can you also list r2frida here with an example?  
https://github.com/enovella/r2frida-wiki/blob/master/README.md

Author: I would love to add, but I dont use R2 nor do I have setup for it. Can i skip this part for now?

Reviewer: Sure, I added it to the ticket so we can close this PR https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/issues/1364

#### Dynamic Instrumentation

##### Information Gathering

In this section we will learn about how to use Frida to obtain information about a running application.

###### Getting Loaded Classes and their Methods

You can use the command `Java` in the Frida CLI to access the Java runtime and retrieve information from the running app. Remember that, unlike Frida for iOS, in Android you need to wrap your code inside a `Java.perform` function. Thus, it's more convenient to use Frida scripts to e.g. get a list of loaded Java classes and their corresponding methods and fields or for more complex information gathering or instrumentation. One such scripts is listed below. The script to list class's methods used below is available on [Github](https://github.com/frida/frida-java-bridge/issues/44 "Github").

```
// Get list of loaded Java classes and methods

> //Filename: java_class_listing.js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Filename: java_class_listing.js
```

Java.perform(function() {
    Java.enumerateLoadedClasses({
        onMatch: function(className) {
            console.log(className);
            describeJavaClass(className);
        },
        onComplete: function() {}
    });
});

// Get the methods and fields
function describeJavaClass(className) {
  var jClass = Java.use(className);
  console.log(JSON.stringify({
    _name: className,
    _methods: Object.getOwnPropertyNames(jClass.__proto__).filter(function(m) {
      return !m.startsWith('$') // filter out Frida related special properties
        || m == 'class' || m == 'constructor' // optional
    }),
    _fields: jClass.class.getFields().map(function(f) {
      return( f.toString());
    })
  }, null, 2));
}

> //command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below the script is saved in the file java_class_listing.js and called with the flag `-l` and injected into the process ID specified.
```

Reviewer: Can you please make a break after the script, put in a sentence like above and then the script is executed?

Reviewer 2: unfortunately we cannot craft a suggestion for those changes because of the backticks involved. But please do so, I think it will look great :)

```
// Get list of loaded Java classes and methods

// Filename: java_class_listing.js

Java.perform(function() {
    Java.enumerateLoadedClasses({
        onMatch: function(className) {
            console.log(className);
            describeJavaClass(className);
        },
        onComplete: function() {}
    });
});

// Get the methods and fields
function describeJavaClass(className) {
  var jClass = Java.use(className);
  console.log(JSON.stringify({
    _name: className,
    _methods: Object.getOwnPropertyNames(jClass.__proto__).filter(function(m) {
      return !m.startsWith('$') // filter out Frida related special properties
        || m == 'class' || m == 'constructor' // optional
    }),
    _fields: jClass.class.getFields().map(function(f) {
      return( f.toString());
    })
  }, null, 2));
}
```

> Below the script is saved in the file java_class_listing.js and called with the flag `-l` and injected into the process ID specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After saving the script to a file called java_class_listing.js, you can tell Frida CLI to load it by using the flag `-l` and inject it to the process ID specified by `-p`.
```

```
frida -U -l java_class_listing.js -p <pid>

// Output
[Huawei Nexus 6P::sg.vantagepoint.helloworldjni]->
...

com.scottyab.rootbeer.sample.MainActivity
{
  "_name": "com.scottyab.rootbeer.sample.MainActivity",
  "_methods": [
  ...
    "beerView",
    "checkRootImageViewList",
    "floatingActionButton",
    "infoDialog",
    "isRootedText",
    "isRootedTextDisclaimer",
    "mActivity",
    "GITHUB_LINK"
  ],
  "_fields": [
    "public static final int android.app.Activity.DEFAULT_KEYS_DIALER",
...
```

Given the verbosity of the output, the system classes can be filtered out programmatically to make output more readable and relevant to the use case.

###### Getting Loaded Libraries

> You can retrieve process related information straight from.the Frida CLI by using the `Process` command. Within the `Process` command the function `enumerateModules` lists the libraries loaded into the process memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can retrieve process related information straight from the Frida CLI by using the `Process` command. Within the `Process` command the function `enumerateModules` lists the libraries loaded into the process memory.
```
